qmr readme refresh (#2992)
CMSgov/cms-mdct-qmr: README.md

Author: ```suggestion
yarn workspace ui-src test
```

Author: ```suggestion
yarn workspace app-api test
```

To login, a number of test users are provisioned via `services/ui-auth/libs/users.json`. Check 1Password in the `qmr_secrets` section for the test user password.

#### oxfmt

This repo uses the code formatter [oxfmt](https://oxc.rs/docs/guide/usage/formatter.html). The formatter is run automatically in a pre-commit hook. Additionally, oxfmt can be run on file save in many IDEs or run ad hoc from the command line.

##### oxfmt with VS Code

The oxc extension can be downloaded from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=oxc.oxc-vscode).

Once installed, open VS Code's Preferences. Search for "Format on Save". Clicking the checkbox should engage the oxfmt formatter on file save.

VS Code is used almost ubiquitously across the current development team; generally speaking, these tools should also work for most other IDEs.

##### oxfmt CLI

Using this command, or a variant of it, will format all matching files in the codebase and write the changes. oxfmt has complete [CLI documentation](https://oxc.rs/docs/guide/usage/formatter.html) on their website.

```bash

> npx yarn oxfmt

Reviewer: I also realized that we can run `yarn oxlint` in the root directory to see if there's anything to lint, maybe we could also add about it?

> npx yarn oxfmt

Author: ```suggestion
yarn oxfmt
yarn oxlint
```

Local dev is built around the CDK setup which runs locally via LocalStack.

Local authorization uses Cognito from AWS (not LocalStack). `./run update-env` fetches values from 1Password and writes them into a gitignored `.env`.

See `deployment/local/README.md` for LocalStack-specific notes.

## Testing

### Runners and Assertion Libraries

The JavaScript unit testing framework being used is [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), and the React component testing library being used is the [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro).

### Update Node Modules

This repo is a Yarn workspaces monorepo. Installing from the repo root installs dependencies for all workspaces.

```bash
yarn install
```

### How to Run Tests

#### Cypress Setup

Once your local environment is up and running, these steps need to be taken to set up `Cypress`:

```bash
yarn install
```

> [!NOTE]
> `./run local` already runs `yarn install` at the repo root; the command above is only needed if you are setting up Cypress without using `./run`.

#### Running Cypress Tests

To run the end-to-end (E2E) `Cypress` tests:

From the repo root:

```bash
./run update-env

> yarn test

Reviewer: For running the yarn test, I change my direction to services/ui src and run it there a lot, so maybe we could add that part?

Author: The unit test commands actually get addressed a [little further down](https://github.com/Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-mdct-qmr/pull/2992/changes#r3119988031) BUT your comment made me remember that I meant to update the commands to work with the new yarn workspace setup so we don't even need to `cd` into the service directories anymore 👀

1. [Create an SSH Key and link it to your Github account](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. Clone this repository locally
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-mdct-qmr.git
   ```
3. Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
4. Install [Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating)
   - A specific version of Node is enforced and specified in the `.nvmrc` file. This version matches the Lambda runtime.
5. Install the correct version of Node
   ```bash
   # nvm commands will default to Node version defined in .nvmrc
   nvm install
   nvm use
   ```
6. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```
7. Enable **Corepack** so the correct Yarn version is used.
   ```bash
   corepack enable
   ```
8. Look at [the deployment README](deployment/local/README.md) for other things you'll need to install, though it will prompt you when your `./run local` if you're missing something.

> 9. Install pre-commit to the formatter and other checks before every commit.

Author: ```suggestion
9. Install pre-commit to run the formatter and other checks before every commit.
```

### One time only

**If you have run the MDCT Setup Script this section can be skipped**

1. [Create an SSH Key and link it to your Github account](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/generating-a-new-ssh-key-and-adding-it-to-the-ssh-agent)
2. Clone this repository locally
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-mdct-qmr.git
   ```
3. Install [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
4. Install [Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#installing-and-updating)
   - A specific version of Node is enforced and specified in the `.nvmrc` file. This version matches the Lambda runtime.
5. Install the correct version of Node
   ```bash
   # nvm commands will default to Node version defined in .nvmrc
   nvm install
   nvm use
   ```
6. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh)
   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```
7. Enable **Corepack** (recommended) so the correct Yarn version is used.
   ```bash
   corepack enable

>    ```

Reviewer 2: I believe corepack is required; since we specify a `packageManager` in our root package.json file, yarn commands _should_ fail until corepack is enabled.
````suggestion
7. Enable **Corepack** so the correct Yarn version is used.
```bash
   corepack enable
```
````

> 8. Look up [here](deployment/local/README.md) for other things you'll need to install, though it will prompt you when your `./run local` if you're missing something.

Reviewer 2: More accessible link name:
```suggestion
8. Look at [the deployment README](deployment/local/README.md) for other things you'll need to install, though it will prompt you when you `./run local` if you're missing something.
```

9. Install the pre-commit hook to run oxfmt on staged files before every commit
   ```bash
   brew install pre-commit # or pip install pre-commit
   pre-commit install

>    ```

Reviewer 2: I'm getting really nitpicky here.
````suggestion
9. Install pre-commit to run the formatter and other checks before every commit.
```bash
   brew install pre-commit # or pip install pre-commit
   pre-commit install
```
````

Author: good edit especially since I added the line for oxlint and then didn't update the instructions 💀

##### oxfmt with VS Code

The oxc extension can be downloaded from the [VS Code Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=oxc.oxc-vscode).

Once installed, open VS Code's Preferences. Search for "Format on Save". Clicking the checkbox should engage the oxfmt formatter on file save.

VS Code is used almost ubiquitously across the current development team; generally speaking, these tools should also work for most other IDEs.

##### oxfmt CLI

Using this command, or a variant of it, will format all matching files in the codebase and write the changes. oxfmt has complete [CLI documentation](https://oxc.rs/docs/guide/usage/formatter.html) on their website.

```bash
yarn oxfmt
yarn oxlint
```

### Local development additional info

Local dev is configured as a TypeScript project. The entrypoint in `./cli/run.ts` manages running the moving pieces locally.

Local dev is built around the CDK setup which runs locally via LocalStack.

> Local authorization uses Cognito from AWS (not LocalStack). `./run update-env` fetches values from 1Password and writes them into a gitignored `.env`.

Reviewer 2: This is redundant with line 101.

> See `deployment/local/README.md` for LocalStack-specific notes.

Reviewer 2: This is redundant with line 74.

Author: I ended up removing this whole section bc I don't think it was adding anything 👀

## Testing

### Runners and Assertion Libraries

The JavaScript unit testing framework being used is [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), and the React component testing library being used is the [React Testing Library](https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro).

### Update Node Modules

This repo is a Yarn workspaces monorepo. Installing from the repo root installs dependencies for all workspaces.

```bash
yarn install
```

### How to Run Tests

#### Cypress Setup

Once your local environment is up and running, these steps need to be taken to set up `Cypress`:

```bash
yarn install
```

> [!NOTE]

> > `./run local` already runs `yarn install` at the repo root; the command above is only needed if you are setting up Cypress without using `./run`.

Reviewer 2: Good note 👍

   ```bash
   /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
   ```
7. Enable **Corepack** so the correct Yarn version is used.
   ```bash
   corepack enable
   ```
8. Look at [the deployment README](deployment/local/README.md) for other things you'll need to install, though it will prompt you when your `./run local` if you're missing something.

> 9. Install pre-commit to the formatter and other checks before every commit.

Reviewer 2: The whole formatter? 😜

Author: 😅 😅 ooooooops

![Jest Results](./.images/jestResults.png?raw=true)

##### Snapshot Tests

> Many of commonly used components and common question components are tested with snapshot tests. [Jest's documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) describes what snapshot testing is and how to interact with their tooling.

Reviewer 2: I thought we had already removed all of the snapshot tests; apparently one yet remains for src/components/Table. We should get rid of that sometime.

```suggestion
One commonly used component is tested with snapshot tests. [Jest's documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) describes what snapshot testing is and how to interact with their tooling.
```

> **Bootstrapping AWS Accounts:**
> For detailed instructions on bootstrapping AWS accounts with CDK (including custom templates and prerequisites), please see [deployment/README.md](deployment/README.md).

#### Configuration AWS Secrets Manager

Look in `deployment/deployment-config.ts` and the `DeploymentConfigProperties` interface to see which values are injected into deployed stacks.

Deployment config is loaded from two AWS Secrets Manager secrets (JSON objects):

- `${PROJECT}-default`
- `${PROJECT}-${stage}` (optional; values override defaults when present)

`PROJECT` comes from environment variables and is set to `qmr` for local development (see `.env.tpl`).

If a key exists in both secrets, the stage secret wins.

#### Destroy Entire Branch from Local

In some circumstances you may want to remove all resources of a given branch. Occasionally there will be orphaned infrastructure that was not destroyed when the branch was destroyed for one reason or another. The process for destroying the branch

1. set up local AWS credentials per the [running database scripts](#running-database-scripts) section

> 2. `brew install jq` Install jq (command-line JSON processor). This is necessary for the destroy script to run properly.

Reviewer 2: This struck me as odd - why, in an app that is 99% typescript, would we need a command-line JSON parser? But funnily enough, I don't think this is actually true anymore. I can't find any references to `jq` in the cli directory at all.

Then again, I haven't run a `destroy` myself in literal years, so I could be wrong.

Author: I think you are right so I removed that line.. I'm not sure overall whether or not destroy is something that even really needs to be run locally.  But I didn't remove the entire section yet at this stage. Maybe that'll come later 👀

| `DELETE` | `/coreset/{state}/{year}/{coreSet}/measures/{measure}/delete` | Delete a measure                                           |

##### Metadata & Utilities

| Method | Path                       | Description                   |
| ------ | -------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/coreset/reportingyears`  | Get available reporting years |
| `GET`  | `/coreset/measureListInfo` | Get measure metadata          |

##### Rates

| Method | Path                                           | Description                      |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| `GET`  | `/rate/{state}/{year}/{coreSet}/{measure}/get` | Get combined rates for a measure |

##### PDF Generation

| Method | Path                                       | Description                                          |
| ------ | ------------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| `POST` | `/coreset/{state}/{year}/{coreSet}/getPDF` | Generate a PDF for a coreset (requires request body) |

#### Kafka

> <!-- TODO: is this still true? -->

Reviewer 2: Yep :(

Author: 😩 not an allowed reaction to a comment for some reason?

Kafka queues are linked to the BigMac account and are not currently used for downstream purposes.

- `postKafkaData`: DynamoDB-stream-driven Lambda that publishes change-data-capture (CDC) events to Kafka.
  - Topic prefix/version: `aws.mdct.qmr.cdc` + `v0`
  - Table→topic mappings (via env): `QualityCoreSetsTable` → `coreSet`, `MeasuresTable` → `measure`, `CombinedRatesTable` → `rate`

#### Utilities

> - `createDynamoUpdateParams`: Utility to convert arguments into DynamoDB-compatible update parameters.

Reviewer 2: Man, I keep forgetting this still exists in some apps. I've torn it out of a few already; we should remove QMR's copy someday.

| `measure`  | Primary storage for all individual measure records, capturing both metadata and user-supplied data for each measure within a state, year, and core set context. Each record has a compound key of `${stateAbbr}${year}${coreSetAbbr}` |
| `rate`     | Record of calculated, cross-program rates for each measure, state, year, and core set. Each record has a compound key of `${stateAbbr}${year}${coreSetAbbr}`                                                                          |

> [!NOTE]
> [HCBS](https://github.com/Enterprise-CMCS/macpro-mdct-hcbs) recently expanded the banner functionality to enable multiple banners stored within the app; presumably, eventually this application will do the same.

#### How to set up Dynamo endpoint to view local DB

In order to run DynamoDB locally, you will need to have Java installed on your system. If not currently installed, go [here](https://java.com/en/download/) to download the latest version.

If you want a visual view of your DynamoDB after the application is up and running, you can install the `dynamodb-admin` tool from [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dynamodb-admin).

> To run the DynamoDB GUI, run `DYNAMO_ENDPOINT=http://localhost:8000 dynamodb-admin` in a new terminal window. From here, you can view the tables and perform operations on the local tables.

Reviewer 2: I am 70% sure this is all incorrect now, and 100% sure the better way to view live local Dynamo data is by logging in to https://app.localstack.cloud/inst/default/resources/dynamodb

Author: I think you are right. I think I had deleted this whole section in another commit but ended up rolling it back bc I had also tried to have Copilot take a sweep at the document and ended up hating most of what Copilot did 😆 so I rolled my deletion back, but I do think this section ought to be removed as no longer relevant.

In order to tell the AWS SDK to interact with the local database, you will need to set a these environment variables to point to your LocalStack instance instead:

```bash
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="test"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="test" # pragma: allowlist secret
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION="us-east-1"
export AWS_ENDPOINT_URL="http://localhost.localstack.cloud:4566"
```

Once your environment variables are set, ensure your LocalStack instance is running. You can then run a script with the following command:

```bash
npx ts-node services/database/scripts/scriptName.ts
```

Scripts in this directory can be used to perform a variety of operations, such as migrating data from one table to another or correcting data that has already been recorded.

### UI

The UI Service creates the URLs associated with the application and the cloudfront logs that monitor traffic.
For Main, Val, and Production, these URLs end with `.gov`; the branch URLs end with `.com`

#### Dev/Impl/Prod endpoints

> | Environment | URL                                    |
> | ----------- | -------------------------------------- |
> | Local       | http://localhost:3000/                 |
> | Branch      | Found in the output of the Deploy step |
> | Master      | https://mdctqmrdev.cms.gov/            |
> | Val         | https://mdctqmrval.cms.gov/            |
> | Prod        | https://mdctqmr.cms.gov/               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Environment | URL                                    |
| ----------- | -------------------------------------- |
| Local       | http://localhost:3000/                 |
| Branch      | Found in the output of the Deploy step |
| Main        | https://mdctqmrdev.cms.gov/            |
| Val         | https://mdctqmrval.cms.gov/            |
| Prod        | https://mdctqmr.cms.gov/               |
```

Reviewer 2: (Unresolving this so we don't lose track of it)
